---
title: Create a custom element
date: 2020-01-08
tags:
  - web-component
  - custom-element
  - progressive-enhancement
---

Like Howard Hughes famously said, "Custom Elements are the way of the future." I could be paraphrasing.

But how? Well here's how you do it.

```js
window.customElements.define(
  'component-name',
  class extends HTMLElement {
    constructor() {
      super();
      // Tada!
    }
  }
);
```

<small class="text__muted">Credit goes to [Zach Leatherman](https://twitter.com/zachleat) for this [codepen](https://codepen.io/zachleat/pen/dyGjawM).</small>

## Ha Ha... okay but really.

Okay, first step is to draft up the idea. The base HTML elements aren't complex and our custom element shouldn't be either. I ask myself:

<small class="text__muted">What's a repeated task that I hate doing over and over again?</small>

## `tel:` links

There could be some [discourse](https://css-tricks.com/the-current-state-of-telephone-links/) about `tel:`, and its distant relatives `mailto:`, `fax:`, `sms:`, and `callto:`. For now I just want to focus on `tel:`.

They frustrate me. Here's a list:

- Different outcomes depending on device/browser/OS.
- `tel:` links can be clicked/activated in contexts that CAN'T INITIATE A PHONE INTERACTION
- `tel:` links can be auto-generated by some browsers on some devices on some OS.
- Side effects due to auto-generated links require extra styling
- Extra markup to be consumed properly by SEO  Bots 
- Extra markup to prevent SEO  Bots  from being too greedy
- Telephone numbers are just hard work with (look up a regex for telephone numbers, no really, I'll wait)

Now that I have my ~~list of demands~~ outline, I like to pseudo-code.

```js
window.customElements.define('phone-number', class extends HTMLElement {});
```

<details>
	<summary>Note: Defining custom elements and checking for support</summary>
	<p>This comes down to personal taste, but it should be mentioned that you don't need to defined the customElement inside of the define function. You can define your class outside of it, and just use it as the second argument like this:</p>
	<p><code style="font-size: 0.75em">window.customElements.define('phone-number', PhoneNumber);</code></p>
</details>
